~~ load balancers ~~

As discussed, its a layer between client and backend such that if backend has multiple replicas
then we are easily able to manage load distribution. (It is also present before distributed DB
server cluster in case of sharding/replication)

benefits -
1. Makes sure that request is directed to correct backend server
2. if any pod becomes unhealthy then load balancer will not even try to contact that particular
pod until it is back on and healthy. (load balancer will know if pod is healthy or not due to 
heartbeats)
3. Prevents over-loading (scalability)
4. Also eliminates single point of failure. (reliability)

additional benefits -
5. Also sometimes serves as API gateway. (like checking if a user is a subscriber or new)
So, malformed API calls do not even reach the backend. So, increased security.
6. also check for SSL certificates/security
SSL certificate handshake happens to make sure all interaction is happening on a trustable
and secure channel.

cons -
1. have an extra layer to maintain.

Note: replicas of backend servers also sometimes called pods.

Types of LBs -
1. hardware based LBs
it's an hardware device put across connections with different servers. (like switch in networking)

2. software based LBs (example, Nginx, HAProxy)
it will store the IP addresses. Get the request, verify it, and send it to the IP address it
choose to be suitable.

what will happen if LB fails ?
replicas exist here as well, which have different types of architecture -

1. Active-passive LBs
(AP is an availability design pattern which is used in other implementations also)

a. master slave architecture
one is active and others are passive (inactive)
which can further lead to choking of master if load increases.

2. active-active LBs
all are active, and listed on DNS, so, clients can choose which to approach (which is bad).
very complex to handle.

So, after discussing how we can ensure reliability in LBs, now we will dwell into their working
methodology and algorithms.
