~~ service discovery ~~

for inter-module communication in microservice architecture of Backend server to
ensure maintainability, we need to know about the IP and exposed APIs of each
microservice module. So that we can create a communication between them, this
phenomenon is called service discoverability.

We can achieve this by -
1. let us keep in each machine's configuration files the location of other machines.

disadvantages -
    - what if a machines IP address changes, this will lead to a configurational change
    in all microservices
    - if we have replicas in a microservices and has a load balancer, then config of 
    other microservices again needs to change and point to that LB instead.

2. use separate discovery server, which will maintain a service registry.
every microservice subscribe to discovery server and logs its location to enable
others to be able to contact (and same for if any load balancer is present.)
then all microservices will contact discovery service to know where to contact.

types -
    A. client side service discovery
    A microservice calls discovery server with another microservice location query, and
    discovery service responds with the location.
    A new microservice will subscribe to discovery server and create a log for its location.

    disadvantage -
        - requesting microservice needs to make two calls
        - needs to have logic to get the address and then use it to contact another microservice

    B. server side service discovery
    when a microservice contacts discovery server for details of whom to contact, discovery server
    will contact the other microservice on its behalf and respond to it with the response
    discovery server gets on its behalf from other microservice.

    disadvantage -
        - slower
        - single point of failure at discovery server will stop internal microservice communication

Note: In some architectures LB acts as discovery server as well.
So, LB has now multiple roles in an architecture, it has a few more roles which
we will discuss in coming lectures.
