~~ VPNs and Firewalls ~~

There are different types of VPNs with different working.

We will be discussing only how VPNs are able to bypass firewalls.

main function of a VPN is that it changes your location somehow. It shows your IP address and location of somewhere else.

How is VPN able to do that ?

when a machine connects to a network, router allocates it an IP, what IP can be allocated to a machine is in accordance with
IANA that are allocated to be a permitted IP address for that region. And that's how that router can work as firewall as well
blocking the access of that machine to some blacklisted IP address.

VPN is a private network present somewhere else in the world. When you connect to a VPN, you become part of that private network,
you will be alloted a private IP of that network and will be added to the list of public facing router of that VPN.

so, when a machine is connected to internet via VPN, that Network behaves like a proxy for you, and talks to the outside world
on your behalf. So, as you are not directly accessing a blocked IP, hence router present in your region can not block it now
for you as it will be sending that to that public facing IP of VPN, and that VPN will be sending the data from blocked IP to you.

similarly, when VPN will be sending you data from a blocked source, the router present in your region, will see that it is coming
from an IP which is not in blacklist hence, it will allow that data to reach you.

In fight between governments and VPN providers, as VPNs has limited nodes which work as gateways to access public network, regional
routers have IPs of those gateways added to blacklist as well. And a VPN can have only a limited range of public IPs which it can
have depending on the region it is present. To counter this, VPNs keep switching their region, locality, architecture to bypass
the blockade.

* ARP (address resolution protocol) / RARP (reverse ARP) protocol -
MAC address in DLL
IP in Network layer

when an IP address is given to ARP, it returns us related MAC address associated with it.
RARP does reverse of ARP.
