~~ Understanding web architecture - frontend ~~

Let's say, you wrote a website using HTML, CSS and JS, which you want to provide to users
on myblogs.com
how will you do it ?

1. basic idea
if this files are on my machine then it won't be available 24x7, and not everyone will contact
me to access those files on my machine.
So, i need to first put it in a machine on the internet which is 24x7 running and can be accessed
by everyone.
Hence, you go to a hosting platform and you take these files and put it into a hosting
platforms machine. And this machine will now be available on the internet.
This process is known as deploying/hosting.

2. How do people access my code through that machine on the internet.
For every machine on the internet, there is an address, called IP address.
So, let's say, my machines address is 24.144.132.207 and now if someone wants to access my
code file index.html which is put on this machine then he/she needs to write.
24.144.132.207/index.html
what this means is, go to the machine whose address i have provide, and get me the file 
whose name i have written after '/'

3. Now, the common problem is to remember the IP address of a machine.
For this, we came up with a solution, which is, 'domain name'.
Now, you can purchase a domain name and keep paying for it a certain amount of money
for as long as you want to keep it. And for that period of time, you can host almost
anything you want on that domain.
Basically domain name is a mapping of domain-name: IP address.
This mapping is known as Domain Name Server mapping or DNS mapping.
This mappings are stored in special machines which are called Domain name servers (DNS).

so, when you type in a domain name inside a browser URL input box, so, the browser first
approaches DNS to know the actual IP address of the machine on which the corresponding
websites file are hosted. Then browser go to that machine and ask for the relevant files so that
browser can show it on the screen.

browser is a software which understands those files, browser knows what to do with HTML, CSS and
JS files, or how to render them. So, as you can see, different browser sometimes interpret
the same files differently.


this is what happens when you type in a URL on a browser.


client-server architecture -
The machine where you hosted HTML, CSS and JS files is called as the Front-end server.
and your browser is a client. This is a simple two tier architecture for static websites.
(front end server can only host the files which are known at the time of development,
hence, static)

                        request
            client      ------>          front-end server
                        <------
                        response